Part 
2 
商務英文 
選讀 
Articles and 
Essays 
338 
UNIT 1 
1) 
Effective Frequency 
The marketing term "effective frequency" refers to the idea that a consumer has to see or hear an ad a number of times before its message hits home. Essentially, the more you say something, the more it sticks in and possibly on-people's heads. It doesn't even have to be true-and that's the problem. What advertisers call "effective frequency," psychologists call the "illusory truth effect": the more you hear something, the easier it is for your brain to process, which makes it feel true, regardless of its basis in fact. 
"Each time, it takes fewer resources to understand," says Lisa Fazio, a psychology professor at Vanderbilt University. "That ease of processing gives it the weight of a gut feeling." That feeling of truth allows misconceptions to sneak into our knowledge base, where they masquerade as facts. One example Fazio and her research team give is the belief that vitamin C can prevent colds, which many people have taken as a fact but is actually a misconception simply because it is long repeated. 
延伸學習篇 商務英文選讀 
Even in the absence of endless repetition, we're 
more likely to believe what we hear than to question it objectively, thanks to another psychological principle: confirmation bias. 
"In general, human beings, after hearing any claim, behave like naive scientists and tend to look for information that confirms the initial conjecture," says Ajay Kalra, a marketing professor at Rice's Jones Graduate School of Business. "In an interesting experiment, a group of consumers was told a leather jacket, Brand A, was very good. When they later examined several brands, they tended to spend more time looking at Brand A and evaluating it more highly than other brands." 
The same principle applies to a coffee company's claim that its coffee is the "richest" in the world. "Confirmation bias typically applies to situations where information is ambiguous and hard to refute," he explains. "The more often you hear a message, the more the confirmatory bias likely comes into play." 
339 
340 
It's no wonder that many of us fall for false claims. on social media, especially when we see them tweeted and retweeted again and again. How can we fight back? There are ways to lessen the influence of repeated claims. One of the best: don't rely on a single source for information. Read stories from multiple news outlets and listen to a variety of opinions. Commit to staying open-minded, and consult with friends and colleagues whose perspectives differ. Take a second to consider how you know something is true. In this way, you can stymie the effects of repetition. It's a great thing to do on social media: before you share something, take that second and pause. Otherwise, you risk becoming part of the echo chamber that keeps falsehoods circulating. 
重點詞彙 
延伸學習篇 商務英文選讀 
1. illusory adj TEKN 
His hope of survival turned out to be illusory. 
他希望能夠存活的願望最終證實是不實際的。 
2. misconception 錯誤看法 
15 She wants to clear up the misconceptions about disabled 
people. 
她想消除民眾對於身障人士的誤解。 
3. bias 使...懷有偏見 偏見 
15 There was clear evidence of a bias against the Asian people. 
有明顯的證據顯示,亞洲人受到不公平的對待。 
CW ■ 
4. conjecture 推測、猜想 
15 There's been a lot of conjecture in the media recently 
about the scandal. 
近期媒體對這件醜聞大加猜測。 
v 
5. refute 反駁 
15 The doctor refuted the allegation of professional 
misconduct from her patients 
那位醫師反駁了病人對她失職的指控, 
6. stymie 阻止;妨礙 
15 The project has been stymied by lack of money. 
這項計畫因為資金缺乏而受到阻礙。 
7. falsehood 
虛假 
15 He is too young to understand the difference between 
truth and falsehood. 
他太年輕而無法明白真實與虛假的區別。 
341 
342 
中譯 
有效頻率 
行銷術語「有效頻率」指的是「消費者必須看到或聽 到某個廣告許多次才會意識到其內容」這樣的概念。基本 上,當你說某件事情越多次,它就越有可能讓人記在腦海 當中。這件事甚至不需要是事實,而這就是問題所在。廣 告商所稱的「有效頻率」,心理學家將之稱為「虛幻真相 效應」——當你聽到某件事情越多次,它對你的大腦來說就 越容易消化,這會讓這件事感覺很真實,無論其是否屬實。 
范德比大學(編註:位於美國田納西州)的心理學教 授麗莎·法齊奧表示:「每一次,我們為了理解所花費 的資源會越來越少。這種過程的簡化會使其成為一種直 覺。」這種覺得它是事實的想法會讓錯誤觀念潛入我們的 知識庫,並在那裡偽裝成事實。法齊奧教授和她的研究團 隊舉出的其中一個例子便是維生素C可以預防感冒的看 法,一直以來許多人都把它當作事實,但其實它是錯誤觀 念,只是因為它長期以來一直被反覆傳誦。 
即使並沒有不斷地重複,我們還是比較可能相信自己 所聽到的事物,而非對其採取客觀的質疑態度,這是另一 項心理學的原理——確認偏誤所造成的。 
萊斯大學(編註:位於美國德州)瓊斯商學院的行銷 學教授亞傑·卡爾拉表示:「一般而言,人類在聽過任何 的主張之後,便會表現得像是天真的科學家,而且往往會 去尋找資訊來證實自己一開始的推測。在一項很有趣的實 驗當中,有一群消費者被告知A牌的皮夾克品質很好。之 後他們在檢視好幾個品牌的時候,往往會花比較多時間去 看A牌的產品,而且給它的評價也比其他品牌來得高。 
┘ 
【延伸學習篇 商務英文選讀 
同樣的原理可以適用於一家咖啡公司宣稱他們的咖啡 是全世界最「濃」的。他解釋道:「確認偏誤通常適用於 資訊模糊而且難以反駁的情況。你越常聽到某項訊息,確 認偏誤就越有可能會發生。」 
難怪我們當中有許多人會將社群媒體上的錯誤訊息信 以為真,尤其當我們看到這些訊息一再被轉發。我們可以 如何反擊呢?有許多方法可以降低重複性訊息的影響力。 其中一項最棒的方法就是:不要依賴單一的資訊來源。從 各個不同的新聞出處閱讀新聞,並聆聽各種意見。努力保 持心胸開闊,並和觀點不同的朋友及同事討論事情。花一 點時間去思考你是如何知道某件事是真的。藉由這種方式, 你就能阻止重複效應的發生。在社群媒體上這麼做是很棒 ——在分享某件事情之前,請花點時間考慮一下。否則的 話,你便有成為同溫層裡持續散播謊言一員的風險。 
給你報報 O 
當你看到拿鐵的價目表寫著:小杯 65 元, 中杯80元,大杯90元,你會買哪一種呢?研究顯示, 如果只有小杯和大杯的選項時,消費者可能會猶豫不 決,但在加入中杯的選項後,多數人會直接選擇大杯 拿鐵。假如你是當中的「多數人」,那麼恭喜你落入 了「誘餌效應」(Decoy Effect)的圈套;中杯的選 項其實是個誘餌,用來襯托大杯拿鐵的「超值感」 由此可知只要以特定的方式來設計選項,就能誘導人 
們去選擇價格較高的產品了。 
343 
344 
UNIT 2 
Small Business 
Small businesses are common in many countries and are operated by many young entrepreneurs around the world. Although they don't have deep pockets to weather a storm, small businesses have certain advantages over large companies. 
First of all, small businesses are easy to start because it doesn't require a large amount of capital to run them. This is particularly helpful to those entering the field of business with limited resources. 
Secondly, a small firm can provide dedicated products or services tailored to the specific demands of its customers. For example, a small shop can offer custom-made products that are not available in large chain stores. A small business's ability to meet the true needs of the consumer is much higher than it is with big companies. 
Finally, operating a small business allows the owner to reap all the fruits of his/her labor. The owner has the sole right to the profits earned. He is not required to divide it with co-owners (shareholders) as in the case of many bigger businesses. A small business's owner is his own boss. 
【延伸學習篇 商務英文選讀 
重點詞彙 
1. entrepreneur 企業家、創業者 
15 Vision, hard work and dedication are required to become a 
successful entrepreneur. 
想要當一位成功的企業家,需要有遠見、努力工作以及貢獻 己身的特質。 
2. tailor m 裁縫 專門製作 
5 This project management role is tailored to fit the 
organization 
這份專案管理規則就是為了符合組織需求而專門製定的。 
3. custom-made u 訂做的 
4 Obviously, these shoes had been custom-made for Elsa. 
很顯然地,這雙鞋子是為艾莎量身訂做的。 
4. meet one's need滿足需求 
15 No perfect policies in the world that meet all people's need. 
世上沒有一種能滿足所有人需求的政策。 
O 5. reap 7 收割、獲得 
15 Jack studied every evening and reaped the benefit at exam 
time. 
傑克每晚都努力念書,考試時受益匪淺。 
6. sole 唯一的、獨享的 
15 Emma's sole objective is to make the information more 
widely available through her channel. 
艾瑪唯一的目的就是透過她的頻道讓更多的人了解這些資訊。 
7. co-owner 共有人 
n 
15 That lady in red is the co-owner of this firm. 
那位穿紅衣服的女士是這家公司的老闆之一。 
345 
346 
中譯 
小型企業 
小型企業在許多國家都很常見,全世界有許多年輕的企 業家都在經營小型企業。雖然他們並沒有雄厚的財力可以度 過難關,但小型企業還是有某些勝過大公司的優點。 
首先,小型企業很容易創立,因為它並不需要大量資本 來經營。這一點對於那些想要進入企業領域但資源有限的人 而言特別有幫助。 
其次,小公司可以提供專用的產品,或是針對客戶的特 殊需求量身打造的服務。舉例來說,小型商店可以提供在大 型連鎖商店買不到的客製化產品。小型企業滿足客人真實需 求的能力比大公司強得多。 
最後,經營一家小型企業可以讓經營者所有的努力都有 所收獲。公司所獲得的利益都是屬於經營者個人的權利。他 不需要像規模較大的公司那樣把利益分配給共同經營者(股 東)。小型企業的經營者就是自己的老闆 
O 
√給你報報 
藍瓶咖啡 (Blue Bottle Coffee) 於 2002 年創立 於舊金山,創辦人詹姆斯·福里曼(James Freeman) 最初只是一名單簧樂手,憑藉著自己對現磨咖啡的熱 愛,以及對咖啡豆品質的嚴格要求,開始了自行創業 之路。藍瓶咖啡在業界素有「咖啡界 Apple」之稱,只 販售四十八小時內烘焙的咖啡豆,走高品質高單價的 小眾市場路線。正因為藍瓶堅持這些飲用的細節與咖 啡美學,才能走出有別於其他大型連鎖品牌的一片天。 
UNIT 
3 
|延伸學習篇 商務英文選讀 
Qinghai-Tibet Railroad 
China completed the construction of the Qinghai- Tibet Railroad in 2006. This 1,142-km railroad line runs across the snow-covered Plateau of Tibet, effectively linking the Tibetan capital, Lhasa, to the northwestern province of Qinghai. Also known as the Pan-Himalayan Railroad, this record-breaking railroad rises to 5,072 meters, earning the title as the world's highest passenger train with more than eighty percent of the track 13,000 feet or 3,962 meters above sea level. 
The Qinghai-Tibet Railroad is a great engineering achievement. Since it was built at high altitudes, both engineers and workers had to breathe bottled oxygen for fear of altitude sickness while working on the construction of the track. Additionally, there were many other challenges they had to cope with, including the soil that can rise and sink as the season changes. Some sections of track had to be laid on ground that is permanently frozen. Due to global warming, the rising temperatures may cause this permafrost to melt, making the land sink to a lower level. The track may become bent or curved as a consequence. Nevertheless, some smart countermeasures were taken so that the engineers managed to cool off the roadbed by keeping the permafrost stable. 
347 
348 
The cost savings to travelers resulting from the completion and operation of the Qinghai-Tibet Railroad are tremendous. Compared with typical fares for direct air travel, a typical train fare between Beijing and Lhasa is much cheaper. Moreover, travelers get to enjoy the magnificent sights and scenery along the way, making the long trip more than worthwhile. It is hoped that with better linkage to the world, the tourism industry will play an increasingly important role in Tibet's economy. 
重點詞彙 
|延伸學習篇 商務英文選讀 
1. record-breaking u 破紀錄的 
15 Even in record-breaking snow storms, she never missed a 
course. 
即使是破紀錄的暴風雪天氣,她也從未錯過一堂課。 
2. altitude 海拔 
15 A plane is flying at an altitude of 15,000 metres. 
那架飛機正在海拔一萬五千公尺上空飛行。 
3. permanently hu 永久地 
15 Cindy and her husband have settled permanently in UK. 
辛蒂和她老公在英國永久定居下來。 
4. consequence 後果 
n 
15 You'll have to take the consequences if you walk out that 
door. 
如果你走出那扇門,後果請自行負責。 
5. countermeasure 對策、因應措施 
O 
15 A different type of countermeasure could be even more 
effective. 
不同類型的應對措施可能將更為有效。 
6. tremendous 巨大的、極好的 
15 This K-drama became a tremendous hit. 
這部韓劇極為叫座。 
7. magnificent 極好的、壯麗的 
15 Mike and his friends visited a magnificent palace in the city. 
麥克和朋友們在城裡參觀了一座宏偉的宮殿。 
349 
350 
中譯 
青藏鐵路 
中國在2006年建造完成了青藏鐵路。這條長 一千一百四十二公里(編註:根據官方資料,青藏鐵路 全長為一千九百五十六公里,此處所指為格爾木至拉薩 段的距離)的鐵路穿越了被大雪覆蓋的西藏高原,並有 效連接西藏首都拉薩和中國西北的青海省。這條破紀錄 的鐵路又被稱為泛喜馬拉雅鐵路,它的最高點為五千零 七十二公尺,因此獲得了全世界最高的客運列車頭銜, 而且有80%以上的軌道高度都在海拔一萬三千英尺 
(三千九百六十二公尺)以上。 
青藏鐵路是工程方面一項很偉大的成就。由於它是 建造在高海拔地區,因此在進行軌道建造工作時,工程 師和工人都必須依靠瓶裝氧氣來呼吸,以免發生高山 症。此外,他們還必須面對許多其他的挑戰,包括土壤 可能會因為季節變化而上升和下沉。有些路段的軌道必 須要鋪設在終年冰凍的地面上。由於全球暖化的關係, 不斷上升的溫度可能會導致永凍土融化,讓陸地下沉到 較低的高度。因此,軌道可能會變得彎曲。然而,工程 師們採取了一些聰明的對策,好讓他們能藉由保持永凍 土溫度穩定而讓路基冷卻下來。 
青藏鐵路的完工和運作大大節省了旅客的交通費 用。比起一般搭乘飛機直飛的費用,搭乘火車由北京到 拉薩的費用要便宜得多。此外,旅客沿途還可以欣賞壯 麗的風景,讓漫長的旅程完全值回票價。希望在和世界 
的聯結更緊密後,觀光業未來能在西藏的經濟方面扮演 越來越重要的角色。 
|延伸學習篇 商務英文選讀 
給你報報0 
布達拉宮是全世界海拔最高的大型 古代宮殿,它依山而建,與山體渾然天成地 結合,被稱為「世界屋脊的明珠」。布達拉 宮最初是吐蕃王松贊干布為迎娶唐朝的文成 公主而興建,是西藏政教合一的重要中心, 歷任的達賴皆居住於宮中,直至現任的達賴 (十四世)流亡他處。布達拉宮建築體分為 紅宮和白宮,主樓建有 13 層,樓高約116 公 尺,擁有上千間的房間,建築風格則融合了 藏族及漢族的文化特色。 
351 
352 
UNIT 4 
Public Transportation 
In many American cities, public transportation is a political issue. So many people live in these cities. that it is impossible for them all to drive cars. Besides, many of them cannot afford cars. Many people want to ride fast subways and clean buses, but nobody wants to pay for them. This is a problem for city politicians, who want to be elected and reelected. Some cities pay for part of the cost of public transportation from taxes. However, the costs go up as the price of fuel increases, and the politicians do not want to increase taxes. The rest of the cost has to come from fares that the 
passengers pay. 
The fare system varies from city to city. In some, such as New York, every passenger pays the same amount whether he or she takes a short ride or a long one. In other cities, such as Washington, there is a system of zones. A passenger who only wants to go a short distance pays one amount. A passenger who goes through more zones pays more. 
In all systems, passengers complain that politicians let fares get too high. Other people complain that politicians let taxes get too high. Everybody blames the politicians. 
重點詞彙 
延伸學習篇 商務英文選讀 
1. politician | 政治人物、政客 
15 The politician asked people to veto for him on TV. 
那位政治人物在電視上懇求人們投票給他。 
2. fuel 
燃料 爲...添加燃料 
15 The scientists are trying to find a cleaner fuel for 
cars. 
科學家正試圖找一種更乾淨的汽車燃料。 
3. the rest of 剩餘的 
例 Tina lived the rest of her life in Korea. 
蒂娜在韓國度過了她的餘生。 
4. passenger 乘客 
15 Some passengers was trapped under the water in the 
accident. 
有部分的乘客在那場意外中被困在了水下。 
5. vary from...to... 從...到...各不相同 
15 The scents of the perfume vary from person to 
person. 
香水的氣味因人而異。 
6. zone 地帶 將劃作特殊區域 
n 
15 Taiwan is in a high-risk earthquake zone 
台灣處於高風險的地震帶。 
7. blame 
歸咎於責備 
15 Tracy blames her father for her lack of confidence. 
崔西把自己缺乏自信心的原因歸咎於她的父親。 
353 
354 
中譯 
(0) 大眾運輸 
在美國的許多城市中,大眾運輸是個政治議題。有太 多人住在這些城市裡,導致他們不可能每個人都開車。此 外,他們當中有許多人買不起車子。許多人都想要搭乘速 度很快的地鐵和乾淨的公車,但是沒有人想要付錢。這是 各城市想要當選或是連任的政治人物所要面對的問題。有 些城市會用税金來支付一部份大眾運輸的費用。然而,由 於燃料價格上漲,費用也隨之增加,而政治人物並不想增 稅。於是其他的費用就必須反映在乘客所支付的票價上。 
不同城市的票價系統也不盡相同。在某些城市,例如 紐約,所有乘客不論搭的是短程或長程,票價都相同。而 在其他城市,像是華盛頓,其系統是以區域來劃分。只想 要去短距離地方的乘客會支付某個票價。而想要跨越多個 區域的乘客就必須支付較高的票價。 
在所有的系統中,乘客們都抱怨政治人物讓票價漲得 太高。其他人則抱怨政治人物讓稅金漲得太高。所有人都 把責任歸咎到政治人物的身上。 
給你報報 
美國加州政府早在十多年前便嘗試打造屬 於加州的高鐵系統,但由於地方政壇與政治獻金的 大金主們各有考量,使得原本規劃的路線經常出現 政策急轉彎,甚至一度讓列車改道行經莫哈維沙漠 ( Mojave Desert )的郊區。由於政治因素的介入, 導致加州高鐵的建設成本不斷暴增,工程竣工之日 也跟著遙遙無期,淪為政治角力下的犧牲品。 
UNIT 
5) 
延伸學習篇 商務英文選讀 
Oyster Card 
London is one of the top travel destinations in the world, but for a first time visitor, navigating this large city can be overwhelming. Using an Oyster card is an easy way to save time and money if you are planning to use public transportation in London. An Oyster card is a blue credit-card-sized contactless smartcard that 
can be used on every form of public transportation within London, including public bus, underground, railway, and some river boat services. 
The Oyster card was first issued on June 30, 2003. The name was decided after a lengthy discussion. Two other proposed names were "Pulse" and "Gem." "Oyster" was chosen because it sounded like a fresh name that was not directly linked to transportation; also, the hard shell of an oyster and the concealed pearl symbolize security and value. But perhaps the best reason is William Shakespeare's quote "The world is your oyster," which means one has the ability and freedom to do anything or go anywhere. So far more than 60 million cards have been issued and over 85% 
of rail and bus travel in London is paid by using an Oyster card. The card never expires. It can be used after any length of time. Besides, deposits can be refunded on return of the card. 
355 
356 
The best reason to get an Oyster card is cost 
savings and convenience. It is cheaper to travel in London with this card than it is to purchase individual paper tickets for each trip. The card allows 40 people to pass through a ticket gate per minute, 15 more than with paper tickets, and also makes boarding a bus three times faster. For London Underground and the railway system, passengers have to touch the card on an electronic reader when entering and leaving the transport system. The reader will show either a green or a red light. The former indicates that you have sufficient credit for your journey while the latter indicates you do not have enough credit and you have to purchase more credit before you can continue your journey. For the public bus service, which has fixed price, passengers only need to touch the reader at the start of the journey when boarding. If you touch the reader again when you get off the bus, you will be charged an additional fare. 
重點詞彙 
|延伸學習篇 商務英文選讀 
1. oyster 
15 
牡蠣 
Only 1 in about 10,000 wild oysters will yield a pearl. 只有大約萬分之一的野生牡蠣可以產出珍珠。 
2. symbolize 7 象徵 
The monument was constructed to symbolize the unity of 
the Taiwan people. 
這座紀念碑的建造是為了象徵台灣人民的團結 
3. perhaps adv 
15 We plan to travel to Europe - to France or UK perhaps. 
我們打算去歐洲旅行,也許會去法國或英國。 
4. refund 退款 退還款項 
15 The theater refunded our money when the performance 
was canceled. 
因為表演取消了,戲院把錢退還給我們。 
5. underground | 地下的 【倫敦】地鐵 
例 The "Tube" is a slang name for the London Underground. 
「管子」是倫敦地鐵的俗稱。 
6. sufficient 足夠的 
15 Peter thinks his income is not sufficient to support his 
family. 
彼得認為自己的收入不夠養活家人。 
7. additional 
額外的 
Please comply with these additional requirements 
請遵守這些附加的規定。 
357 
358 
牡蠣卡 
倫敦是全世界最棒的旅遊目的地之一,但對第一次 造訪當地的遊客而言,要遊覽這座大城市可能會令人吃 不消。如果你計劃要搭乘倫敦的大眾運輸系統,牡蠣卡 會是一個省時又省錢的簡單方法。牡蠣卡是一張大小和 信用卡相同的藍色感應式智慧卡,它可以使用於倫敦的 每一種大眾運輸系統,包括公車、地下鐵、火車和某些 渡船服務。 
牡蠣卡最早是在2003年六月三十日所發行。這個 名稱是經過了冗長的討論之後才決定的。另外兩個被提 出來討論的名稱是「脈動」和「寶石」。「牡蠣」獲選 的原因是這個名字聽起來很新鮮,不會直接和運輸系統 產生聯想;此外,牡蠣的硬殼和藏在殼內的珍珠象徵著 安全和價值。不過也許最好的原因是莎士比亞的名言 「世界是你的牡蠣」,意思是人有能力可以做任何事或 是去任何地方。到目前為止已經發行了六千多萬張牡蠣 卡,且在倫敦有85%以上的火車和公車旅程都是使用 牡蠣卡來支付。這張卡片永不過期。購買之後不論經過 多久都可以使用。此外,退還卡片時也可以同時退還訂 金。 
購買牡蠣卡的最佳理由就是節省成本和方便。在倫 敦旅遊時使用這張卡的費用比每段路程購買個別的紙本 車票要來得便宜。這張卡每分鐘可以讓四十個人次通過 驗票口,比紙本車票多了十五個人次,而且也讓上公車 的速度快了三倍。在搭乘倫敦地鐵和鐵路系統時,乘客 
必須將卡片觸碰電子讀卡機才能進出運輸系統。讀卡機 會顯示綠色或是紅色的燈光。前者表示你有足夠的餘額 可以進行旅程,而後者則表示你的卡片餘額不足,必須 加值才能繼續展開旅程。在搭乘公車時,價格是固定 的,乘客只需要在旅程一開始上車時觸碰讀卡機即可。 如果你下公車時又觸碰了一次讀卡機,那你就會被額外 扣款。 
延伸學習篇 商務英文選讀 
給你報報 
全世界第一條開設的地鐵路線是倫敦 地鐵的大都會線(Metropolitan Railway), 於1863年開通,當時電力還尚未普及,因此 均使用需要頂部通風良好的蒸汽火車,到了 1906 年倫敦地鐵已全數電氣化。巴黎地鐵最 初的法文名字「Chemin de Fer Métropolitain」 就是從倫敦地鐵的 Metropolitan Railway 直譯 的,後來縮短成「Métro」 所以現在許多的 
" 
國際大城市地鐵也都稱呼地鐵為metro。 
359 
360 
UNIT 
6 
Collaborative Online International Learning 
Collaborative online international learning (COIL) is a recently developed form of education that promotes global learning between colleges and universities from different countries around the world. With the aid of modern technology such as the Internet and videoconferencing, students from schools in different countries can embark on their learning with peers of different cultural and language backgrounds. This is also an affordable way of international learning through which students can establish friendship with people of similar age and learn together without having to spend much money going abroad in order to do so. As the word "collaborative" indicates, this is a pedagogy that focuses on a student-centered approach of learning with teachers playing merely the role of facilitators. They need to build up a sounding collaboration by developing advantageous learning strategies and activities that can boost students' motivation in learning and their willingness to learn with and through each other. Through modern technology such as videoconferencing, students could discuss topics that are of interest to them and communicate with each other cross-culturally. This is one fruitful way of gaining one's own global literacy and cross- cultural competence. That is the reason why some universities in both the United States and Japan play an active role in encouraging this kind of learning world-wide. 
重點詞彙 
延伸學習篇 商務英文選讀 
1. collaborative @ 合作的 
15 The presentation was a collaborative effort by all the 
members in the club. 
該項報告是俱樂部所有會員共同努力的成果。 
2. embark on / upon sth. 罒 著手去做... 
15 They're embarking on a new project next month. 
他們下個月會著手進行一項新的企劃。 
3. merely 只不過 
15 The herbs won't cure him. They merely stop the pain. 
這些藥草無法治療他。不過是止痛而已。 
4. facilitator 協助者 
15 Tim certainly can play an important role as a facilitator. 
提姆一定能扮演好協助者這個重要的角色。 
5. fruitful 有成效的 
15 Betty had a fruitful career. 
貝蒂在事業上很成功。 
6. literacy 能力;識字力 
15 Computer literacy is an essential skill nowadays. 
會使用電腦在今日是一種必備的技能 
7. competence 競爭力 
15 Obtaining a variety of professional certificates is one 
way of showing competence. 
獲得各式各樣的專業證書是展現競爭力的一種方式。 
361 
362 
中譯 
合作式線上國際學習 
合作式線上國際學習(COIL )是一種近期發展出來 的教育模式,推廣全世界不同國家各大學院校之間的全 球學習。藉由網路和視訊會議等現代科技的幫助,來自 不同國家學校的學生可以和不同文化及語言背景的同儕 一起著手學習。這也是一種能以合理價格進行國際學習 的方式,而透過這種方式,學生們可以和同齡的人建立 友誼並一起學習,而不需要為此花大錢出國。正如「合 作式」這個字所指出的,這種學習法聚焦在以學生為中 心的學習方式,老師扮演的只是協助者的角色。他們必 須發展有利的學習策略,以及能激發學生學習動力和想 透過彼此一起學習的意願的活動,來建立有效的合作。 透過視訊會議等現代科技,學生們可以討論自己有興趣 的主題,並與彼此進行跨文化溝通。這是獲得全球化素 養及跨文化競爭力的有效方式。這就是為什麼美國和日 本的某些大學相當積極地在全世界推動這種學習方式。 
e= 
√ 給你報報 9 
全球資訊網之父——提姆·伯納斯-李(Tim Berners-Lee)是一名英國電腦科學家,他於1989 年首次將超文字、TCP/IP 協定、域名系統三項串 連,成為現今全球網際網路(WWW, World Wide Web)的先河;然而伯納斯-李並未為此申請專利, 也正因他的無私,才有今日迅速普及的網路世界。