Part 
4 
精選閱讀 
測驗 
Reading Tests 
潑】 
280 
閱讀測驗試題 01 
In 1902, a volcano in the Caribbean island of Martinique blew up. A French naval officer on the scene, Lt. George Hébert managed to coordinate the rescue of over 700 people. He noticed, as he did so, how people moved, some well, some badly, around the obstacles in their path, and how this affected their chances of survival. Hébert had travelled 
widely and was well aware of skills many indigenous people exhibited in being able to traverse the natural environment. From these experiences, Hébert developed a training discipline which he called "the natural method" in which climbing, jumping and running techniques were used to negotiate obstacles. His method was adopted by the French military and became the basis for all their training. In time, it became known as parkour parcours du combattant—the path of the warrior. 
Parkour involves a range of "moves" although none are official. They involve vaulting, jumping and landing accurately on small and narrow features, catching ledges, traversing high wall and landing with a rolling impact to absorb impacts. From the late 1990s, the art and sport of parkour spread worldwide. In 2003, filmmaker Mike Christie made the film Jump London, and urban freerunning, or freeflow, began to dominate 
the London scene. But it was the arrival of YouTube in 2005 that really 
brought freerunning to a global audience. People around the world began to post their videos online, making freerunning a mainstream sport, and in 2007, the first major freerunning and parkour competition was held in 
Vienna. 
Since parkour values freedom, there are few facilities dedicated to the practice. Parkour participants are also known as Traceurs and they 
基礎養成篇 精選閲讀測験 
use both rural and urban areas, typically parks, offices and abandoned buildings. Traceurs generally respect the environment they practice in, and since part of their philosophy is "leave no trace", there have been few concerns over damage to property. However, law enforcement and fire and rescue teams argue that freerunners are risking their lives needlessly, especially when they practice at height. However, practitioners argue that injuries are rare, because they rely on their own hands and feet rather than things out of their immediate control, such as ice and wheels, as is the case with skiing and race-driving. 
1. What is the main theme of this passage? 
(A) A volcano erupting event 
(B) The development of a sport 
(C) How Lt. Hébert saved people 
(D) How dangerous freerunning is 
2. What did Hébert call his training discipline for getting quickly 
over obstacles? 
(A) Parcours du combatant 
(B) Freerunning or freeflow 
(C) The natural method 
(D) The path of the warrior 
3. Which physical exercises were used in Hébert's regimen? 
(A) Vaulting, jumping, and landing 
(B) Cycling, climbing, and jumping (C) Running, climbing, and jumping (D) Jumping, running, and swimming 
281 
282 
4. What are typical rural and urban locations for Parkour? 
(A) Volcano areas, mountains, and trees 
(B) Parks, offices, and abandoned buildings (C) Downtown streets, sidewalks, and walls (D) Beach, bike paths, and grassy areas 
5. Which of the following statements is true? 
(A) Parkour was the military training for Caribbean soldiers. (B) A large number of injuries were reported in freerunning. (C) Traceurs usually leave damages to the environment they 
practice in. 
(D) Freerunning became popular in the world because of the 
Internet. 
|基礎養成篇 精選閱讀測驗 
中譯 
1902 年,位於加勒比海馬提尼克島上的一座火山爆發了。 當時人在現場的一位法國海軍軍官喬治·赫伯特上尉負責調度 七百多人的救援事宜。他在進行救援工作的時候注意到人們在路 途中繞過障礙物的方式,有些人很靈活,有些人則很遲鈍,而這 些方式會影響他們的生存機會。赫伯特遊歷甚廣,而且他很清楚 許多原住民所展現出能夠在自然環境中來去自如的技巧。從這些 經驗當中,赫伯特發展出一套他稱之為「自然方法」的訓練課 程,也就是利用攀爬、跳躍以及跑步的技術來跨越障礙物。他的 方式受到法國軍隊所採用,並成為所有訓練的基礎。最終,它成 為眾所皆知的跑酷——來自法文的 parcours du combattant, 意思就是「戰士之路」 
跑酷包含了各式各樣的「移動」,雖然並沒有正式的定義。 這些移動方式包括撐躍、在小而狹窄的地形精確地躍起及著地, 攀爬高架、跨越高牆以及使用翻滾撞擊來減緩衝擊力的方式著 地。從 1990 年代末期開始,跑酷這項藝術和運動在世界各地造 成流行。2003年,電影製作人麥可·克里斯提拍攝了電影《跳 躍倫敦》,城市中的自由奔跑(或稱為自由流派)開始佔據了倫 敦風景的主要地位。然而,YouTube 頻道在2005年問世,才 真正將自由奔跑帶到全球觀眾面前。世界各地的人們開始在網路 上發佈影片,讓自由奔跑成為一項主流運動,而2007年則在維 也納舉辦了首次大型的自由奔跑及跑酷比賽。 
由於跑酷重視自由,所以幾乎沒有可以用來練習的設施。跑 酷運動的參與者也稱為Traceur(編註:法文意思為「子彈」), 農村和都市都是他們會使用的場地,最典型的便是公園、辦公室 以及廢棄的大樓。跑酷運動參與者一般來說都很尊重他們所練習 的環境,而且由於他們的哲學當中有一部份是「不留痕跡」,因 此人們不太需要擔心跑酷會對財產造成損害。然而,執法、消防 及救難團隊卻認為這些參加自由奔跑的人沒有必要拿自己的生 命去冒險,尤其是他們在高處進行練習的時候。不過參加跑酷練 習的人則認為在跑酷運動中受傷的情形並不常見,因為他們依賴 的是自己的雙手和雙腳,而不是讓他們無法立即掌握的事物,例 如滑雪比賽中的冰和賽車中的輪子。 
283 
abort 
284 
答案&解析 
題號答案 
解析內容 
1. B 
中譯本文的主題是什麼? 
解析 
(A)一起火山噴發的事件 
(B)一項運動的發展 
(C) 赫伯特救人的方式 
(D)自由奔跑有多麼危險 
2. C 
中譯赫伯特把這項快速跨越障礙物的訓練課程叫做什麼? 解析(A)戰士之路(法文) 
(B)自由奔跑或是自由流派 
(C)自然方法 
(D)戰士之路 
3. C 
中譯 
赫伯特的訓練當中運用了以下哪一些體能運動? 
解析(A)撐越、跳躍及著地 
(B)騎單車、攀爬及跳躍 
(C)跑步、攀爬及跳躍 
(D)跳躍、跑步及游泳 
4. B 
中 
在農村和都市的典型跑酷練習地點有哪些? 
解析 
(A)火山地區、山及樹 
(B)公園、辦公室及廢棄大樓 
5. D 
(C)市區街道、人行道及牆 
(D)海灘、自行車道及草地 
(中譯】 下列哪一項敘述是正確的? 
解析(A)跑酷是加勒比海地區士兵的軍事訓練方式。 
(B) 根據報導,有許多人因為參加自由奔跑而受傷。 
(C)跑酷參加者通常會對他們所練習的環境造成損害。 
(D)自由奔跑由於網際網路的關係而在全球大受歡迎。 
閱讀測驗試題 2 
基礎養成篇 精選閲讀測験 
There are still a few people in northern Europe who think that global warming might not be such a bad thing. In Britain, where summer can sometimes seem to last little more than a few weeks, many would 
welcome the idea of it getting a bit hotter. 
Unfortunately, things are not so simple. Global warming doesn't just mean that the world will slowly get warmer. Paradoxically, it could cause certain areas to get colder—a lot colder. The latest predictions are that northern Europe could even be plunged into an ice age. While areas of southeastern Europe, such as Greece, would continue to get hotter and 
drier, Britain could find itself, in the winter months at least, surrounded by sea ice. 
The reason for this concerns the Greenland ice sheet. This is one 
of the biggest expanses of ice in the world around 1,500 km long and 600 km wide. It is so big that if it all melted, sea levels would rise by 
7 meters. Due to rising emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide from the combustion of fossil fuels, this ice sheet is melting at an alarming rate. But how could the melting of the Greenland ice sheet threaten to plunge northern Europe into a new ice age? 
The link in the chain of events is what some call the Gulf Stream 
and others call the Atlantic Conveyor. This is the stream of warm water 
that comes up from Central America and flows across the Atlantic to northern Europe. It is this huge mass of warm water which accounts for the relatively high temperatures enjoyed by Britain, for instance, compared with parts of Canada and Russia which are equally far north of the equator. Warm water is conveyed across to Europe near the surface 
of the Atlantic, and, at its northernmost point, it cools and sinks because 
285 
286 
the water from the tropics has a higher salt content, making it denser and 
heavier than the water near the arctic. The cold and dense water then 
flows south close to the ocean floor and back towards Central and South 
America to complete the cycle. 
Scientists are beginning to make bleak predictions of an impending ice age in the northern hemisphere because they have observed that the water flowing from the melting Greenland ice sheet is flowing into the path of the Gulf Stream. The water from the melted ice will reduce the density of the water in the Gulf Stream, stopping the water sinking in the north and thereby cutting off the deep southerly current, which, in turn, 
will cut off the northerly flow of warmer water. At that point, the seas 
around Britain will begin to freeze. 
1. What is the main purpose of the passage? 
(A) to provide evidence for global warming 
(B) to predict when the next ice age will begin 
(C) to explain how global warming brings about an ice age 
(D) to show how the density of the water in the Gulf Stream has 
changed over time 
2. Where is the passage most likely from? 
(A) a book review 
(C) a furniture catalogue 
(B) a literary fiction 
(D) a popular science magazine 
3. Which of the following is closest in meaning to the word 
"paradoxically" in the second paragraph? 
(A) Strangely 
(C) Apparently 
(B) Inevitably 
(D) Ideally 
基礎養成篇 精選閲讀測験 
4. According to the passage, why will Britain become colder if 
global warming is not stopped? 
(A) Because the increasing amount of greenhouse gases will cool 
down the sea water around Britain 
(B) Because the Gulf Stream will stop carrying warmer water to 
Britain 
(C) Because the water in the seas of Central America will be 
frozen 
(D) Because the melted ice from the Greenland ice sheet will 
flow south to Britain 
5. Which of the following can be inferred from the passage? 
(A) The author assumes that human activities do not actually 
contribute to the increase of greenhouse gases. 
(B) Britain would be as cold as any other region at the same 
altitude if the Gulf Stream did not exist. 
(C) The Gulf Stream is the largest ocean current in the world. (D) Russia and Canada will be much colder than they are now if 
global warming continues. 
287 
288 
中譯 
在北歐,仍有一些人覺得全球暖化可能不是那麼糟糕的事 情。在英國,當地的夏天有時候可能只為時幾個星期,因此許多 人會接受天氣變得熱一點的想法。 
很遺憾地,事情並沒有這麼簡單。全球暖化並不只是意味著 世界會慢慢地變熱。聽起來可能很矛盾,但它可能會導致某些區 域變冷,而且是變得非常冷。最新的預測是,北歐可能會陷入冰 河時期。雖然諸如希臘等東南部國家仍會繼續變熱和變乾,但英 國可能會發現他們至少在冬天來臨的月份會被海裡的冰所圍繞。 
造成這種情形的理由和格陵蘭的冰層有關。這是全世界結冰 面積最大的區域之一,大約有一千五百公里長和六百公里寬。該 區域相當廣大,所以如果它全部融化了,海平面將會上升七公尺 之多。由於溫室氣體排放量的增加,例如燃燒石化燃料所產生的 二氧化碳,這裡的冰層正以驚人的速度融化。但是格陵蘭冰層的 融化是如何讓北歐產生陷入新冰河時期的危機呢? 
這一連串事情的關聯就在於有些人稱為墨西哥灣流,而有些 人則稱為大西洋輸送帶的洋流。這道洋流是由中美洲流經大西 洋,最後到達北歐的暖流。就是這大量的溫暖海水造成了像是英 國等國家比起同樣位於赤道北邊的加拿大各地及俄羅斯,氣溫相 對高了許多。溫暖的海水被輸送到了接近大西洋海面的歐洲,來 到洋流的極北點,這時海水便開始冷卻和下沉,因為來自熱帶的 海水含有很高的鹽分,這讓它比起北極附近的海水密度更高也更 重。冰冷而密度高的海水接下來會往南流到海底附近,然後往回 流到中南美洲來結束這個巡迴。 
科學家們正開始針對北半球即將來臨的冰河時期進行淒涼的 預測,因為他們已經注意到流自融化中的格陵蘭冰層的海水會流 到墨西哥灣流的路徑。由冰融化而成的海水將會減低墨西哥灣流 的海水密度,讓它不會在北方下沉,因此會切斷往南流向海底深 處的洋流,接著就會切斷往北流的温暖海水。到了那個時候,英 國就會開始陷入冰凍了。 
答案&解析 
|題號 答案 
解析內容 
1. C 
中譯本文的主旨是什麼? 
解析 
(A)提供全球暖化的證據。 
(B)預測下個冰河時期何時會開始。 
|基礎養成篇 精選閱讀測驗 
(C)解釋全球暖化如何造成冰河時期。 
(D)說明墨西哥灣流的海水密度會如何隨著時間而改變。 
2. D中譯本文最可能出自什麼地方?ton hiis bhe th arods beefim 
解析(A)書評 (B)文學小說(C)傢俱目錄 (D)科普雜誌 
3. A 
4. 
B 
5. B 
中證 下列何者的意思和本文第二段的 paradoxically(似非而是 
地)意思最相近? 
解析(A)奇怪地(B)無可避免地 (C)明顯地 (D)理想地 
中譯 根據本文,為什麼如果不阻止全球暖化,英國就會變得很冷? 解析(A)因為溫室氣體數量的增加會使英國附近的海水溫度下降。 (B)因為墨西哥灣流會停止運送溫暖的海水到英國。 How (C)因為中美洲的海水將會冰凍。 
(D)因為格陵蘭冰層融化而成的海水將會向南流到英國。 
中譯 根據本文,我們可以推論出以下哪一項敘述? 
解析(A)作者認為人類的活動並沒有真的導致溫室氣體的增加。 
(B) 如果墨西哥灣流不存在,英國將會和同海拔的其他區域 
一樣冷。 
(C)墨西哥灣流是全世界最大的洋流。 
(D)如果全球暖化的情形持續發生,俄羅斯和加拿大將會比 
to mioty a vhaus ES. 
現在更冷。 
21 di mod honor of asylsatoo 
289 
290 
閱讀測驗試題月 
Whether you like it or not, we are currently in a season of economic uncertainty. A couple of years back, everything seemed fine. Many did not see the handwriting on the wall. Most of those who saw it 
talked about it and did nothing about it. When the roof came crashing, 
it affected those who were clueless and those who had a clue and did 
nothing about it the same way. The wise foresees trouble and takes 
evasive action while the fool runs smack into it. 
In business and life generally, things go up and down. Nothing stays the same forever. Markets go up and down. Business is always evolving as new technologies or trends become mainstream. If everything is going well with our business, it does not mean we can just sit back and relax. 
Instead, we need to look beyond today's certainty to when something 
new comes up and disrupts our business. We need to be prepared for that eventuality, or we would be ambushed by it. 
A smart business invests in the next technology rather than wait to 
be put out of business. If we want our business to last long, we need to see beyond today to tomorrow's uncertainties. We have to look at what may or is going to happen next in our area of business, and position ourselves to benefit from it. If, unfortunately, you are already a victim of 
short-sightedness and are struggling to get back on your feet, you may 
want to remember and learn from the lesson after what you have gone 
through. 
基礎養成篇 精選閲讀測験 
1. Which of the following titles best describes the main idea of this 
passage? 
(A) Have Faith in Our Judgment 
(B) See Beyond Our Comfort Zone 
(C) Prepare for New Technologies 
(D) Make Smart Business Investments 
2. What is the main idea of the second paragraph? 
(A) Business markets may keep going up and down. 
(B) We should keep an eye on our business performance. 
(C) New technologies likely help develop new business trends. (D) We need to prepare for challenges in our business beforehand. 
3. According to the passage, which of the following statements is 
TRUE? 
(A) Successful business people hardly have time to sit back and 
relax. 
(B) Uncertainty is considered as the key to improving business 
success. 
(C) Knowing the future development of our area of business 
helps us benefit from it. 
(D) Victims of short-sightedness have little chance to get back 
on their feet in business. 
4. What does handwriting on the wall mean in the first paragraph? 
(A) Loss of security 
(C) Sense of uncertainty 
(B) Effect of wisdom. 
(D) Warning of hardship 
5. Which of the following best replaces ambushed in the second 
paragraph? 
(A) caught off guard 
(C) looked down upon 
(B) blamed for nothing 
(D) found fault with 
291 
292 
中譯 
不管你喜不喜歡,我們目前都處於經濟不確定的時期。回顧 幾年前,一切看似良好。許多人並沒有看見不祥之兆。而有看見 的人大多只是談論,什麼也沒做。當屋頂崩塌,受到影響的是那 些沒有頭緒或是有頭緒但同樣什麼也沒做的人。有智慧的人能預 見麻煩並採取閃避的行動,而愚笨的人則會一頭撞上去。 
一般而言,我們的事業及生活總會有起有落。沒有事情會永 遠不變。市場會起起伏伏。而企業總是在進展,因為新的科技和 趨勢會成為主流。如果企業一切運作良好,並不代表我們可以休 息和放鬆。相反地,我們所看的不只是眼前確信之事,而是何時 會有新的事情發生而擾亂企業。我們必須未雨綢繆,否則就會遭 到伏擊。 
聰明的企業會投資下一階段的科技,而非等著關門大吉。如 果我們想要讓企業永續發展,我們所看的就必須不只是眼前,而 是未來不確定的事物。我們必須關注我們的事業領域中可能或是 即將發生的事。如果很不幸地你已經是目光短淺的受害者,並正 在力求重新振作,你可能必須在自己經歷過的事情中記取和學習 教訓。 
答案&解析 
題號 答案 
解析內容 
1. B 
中譯 
下列哪一個標題最適合形容本文的主旨? 
解析 
(A)對我們的判斷有信心 
(B)超越舒適圈的眼光 
(C)為新科技做好準備 
(D)進行聰明的企業投資 
2. D 
中譯本文第二段的主旨是什麼? 
基礎養成篇 精選閱讀測驗 
解析(A)商業市場可能會持續地起伏。 
(B)我們應該關注自己企業的表現。 
(C)新科技可能有助於發展新的商業趨勢。 
(D) 我們必須為企業面臨的挑戰預先做好準備。 
3. C 
中譯 根據本文,下列哪一項叙述是正確的? 
4. D 
5. A 
解析(A)成功的企業人士幾乎沒有時間可以休息和放鬆。 
(B)不確定性被視為改善企業成功與否的關鍵。 
(C)了解自身事業領域的未來發展有助於從中獲得益處。 (D)目光短淺的受害者在事業上重新振作的機會很小。 
中譯本文第一段的 handwriting on the wall 是什麼意思? 解析(A)安全感的喪失 
(B)智慧的效果 
(C)不確定感 
(D)對於艱苦的警告 
中譯 下列何者的意思最適合代替本文第二段的 ambushed ? 解析(A)措手不及 (B)什麼都不責怪(C)輕視 (D)挑剔 
293 
294 
閱讀測驗試題。」 
The ancient art of liuli has, in recent years, been given a new lease 
on life. Liuli is Chinese glass artwork, a craft that has been around since 
the 11th century BC. Creating these beautiful glass ornaments, tableware, and jewelry is an incredibly complicated and time-consuming process, 
demanding great technical skill and patience. However, the results are delicate, elegant crystal works, each one impossible to replicate and each 
one unique. 
Liuli stands out because of its many bright colors. The technique 
employed by liuli artisans is referred to as “pâte-de-verre,” or lost-wax casting, in which a glass powder is mixed with colorants and fired at exceptionally high temperatures. Because each model can only be used. once and the colors can vary so much, every individual liuli craftwork is truly one of a kind. 
Pale green liuli beads date back to the Western Zhou Dynasty, and liuli handicrafts flourished during the Tang Dynasty, when the word liuli 
became popular. By the 19th century, this glass casting technique was no longer practiced. It wasn't until 1968, when the earliest example of 
"pâte-de-verre" was discovered in China, that archaeologist realized that liuli was an artform founded in China. The discovery drove local artists 
to revive the tradition. 
None has done more to reinstate liuli than Loretta Hui-shan Yang and Chang Yi. In 1987, they established a small company named Liuligongfang and opened a workshop in Tamshui. Without any experience at all, Yang was determined to ensure that this Chinese 
tradition would not be lost forever. After massive investment and a lot of 
基礎養成篇 精選閲讀測験 
trial and error, Liuligongfang finally found its feet, and Yang and Chang 
built up a reputation as the founders of contemporary Chinese glass art. There are now almost 70 Liuligongfang galleries, and some of their artworks form part of internationally renowned museums' permanent collections. For Liuligongfang founders, each individual artifact should capture the history of liuli. At the same time, Liuligongfang strives to give a modern twist to this ancient art. 
1. What happened when the earliest example of "pâte-de-verre" 
was discovered in 1968? 
(A) The price of liuli works quickly began to drop. 
(B) Most artists showed little interest in the art form. (C) Many tourists began to visit China to see these works. (D) Many artists in China began to create liuli works. 
2. Which of the following statements about liuli is NOT true? 
(A) It is extremely difficult to do and can take a lot of time. (B) Liuli artists often use many different colors to liven up their 
works. 
(C) Once the technique is mastered, it is easy to copy other liuli 
works. 
(D) It almost disappeared because people stopped practicing the 
art form. 
295 
296 
3. How can we best describe the history of Liuligongfang? 
(A) It was opened by experienced craftsmen. 
(B) The company was shaky at first, but then it became 
successful. 
(C) The company did well at first, but then it had troubles later 
on. 
(D) It immediately became famous when it was founded in 
1987. 
4. According to the article, what are the founders of Liuligongfang 
trying to achieve with their work? 
(A) They aim to blend the past of liuli with current ideas. 
(B) They hope to make liuli works more affordable for common 
people. 
(C) They want to simplify the process of liuli so it can be 
produced faster. 
(D) They encourage liuli artists to try and replicate works from 
the Zhou Dynasty. 
5. What would be the most suitable title for this article? 
(A) Chinese Glass Artwork 
(B) The Intricate Art of Liuli 
(C) The History of Liuligongfang 
(D) Contemporary Technique of Glass Casting 
基礎養成篇 精選閱讀測驗 
中譯 
古老的琉璃藝術近年來被賦予了新的生命。琉璃是中國的玻 璃藝術品,它是大約從西元前十一世紀就存在的一種工藝。創 造這些美麗的玻璃飾品、餐具和珠寶是一個非常複雜和耗時的過 程,必須具有優良的技術和耐心。然而,其成品是精緻又優雅的 水晶作品,每一件都不可能被複製,而且相當獨特。 
琉璃因為有著許多明亮的顏色而與眾不同。琉璃工匠所使用 的技術被稱為脫蠟鑄造法,是把玻璃粉末和著色劑混合,並在非 常高的温度下燒製。由於每個模型只能使用一次,而且顏色很多 變,因此每個琉璃工藝品真的都是獨一無二。 
淺綠色的琉璃珠可追溯到西周時期,而琉璃手工藝則在唐朝 蓬勃發展,當時也是琉璃一詞開始盛行的時期。到了十九世紀, 玻璃鑄造技術已不再被採用。而直到 1968年,人們才在中國發 現了脫蠟鑄造法的最早樣品,考古學家也才了解琉璃是由中國所 創立的藝術形式。該發現驅使當地藝術家重新恢復這項傳統。 
在重新恢復琉璃工藝方面,沒有人比楊惠姍和張毅做得更 多。1987年,他們成立了一家名為琉璃工房的小公司,並在淡 水開了一間工作室。沒有任何經驗的楊惠姍下定決心要保存這項 中國傳統,讓它不至於失傳。經過大量投資以及多次的試驗和錯 誤之後,琉璃工房終於找到立足點,而楊惠姍和張毅也建立了當 代中國玻璃藝術創始人的名聲。目前琉璃工房已有將近七十家藝 廊,其中一些藝術品是國際知名博物館永久收藏品的一部份。對 於琉璃工房的創始人來說,每一件手工藝品都應該記錄著琉璃的 歷史。同時,琉璃工房也努力為這項古老的藝術帶來現代風格。 
297 
298 
答案&解析 
|題號 答案 
1. D 
解析內容 
2. C 
中譯 1968年人們發現最早的脫蠟鑄造法樣品時發生了什麼事? 
解析 
(A)琉璃製品的價格開始迅速下降。 
(B)大多數藝術家對這項藝術形式沒什麼興趣。 
(C) 許多遊客開始造訪中國來觀賞這些作品。 
(D) 許多中國藝術家開始創作琉璃作品。 
中譯 下列哪一項關於琉璃的敘述並不正確? 
(A)製作琉璃非常困難而且相當耗時。 
解析 
3. B 
中譯 
解析 
4. A 
5. B 
(B) 琉璃藝術家經常使用許多不同的顏色來使作品生動。 
(C) 一旦掌握了這項技術,要複製其他的琉璃作品是很容易的。 
(D) 由於人們停止採用這項藝術形式,它幾乎消失了。 
下列哪一項對於琉璃工房歷史的描述最為貼切? 
(A)它是由經驗豐富的工匠所設立。 
(B)該公司一開始並不穩定,但後來成功了。 
(C)該公司一開始表現很好,但後來遇到了麻煩。 
(D)它在1987年成立後立刻便聲名大噪。 
中譯根據本文,琉璃工房的創始人試著用他們的作品去實現什麼? 解析(A)他們的目標是將琉璃的過去和現代想法相融合。 
(B) 他們希望讓一般人更能買得起琉璃製品。 
(C)他們想要簡化琉璃的製作過程,好讓它可以更快速地生產。 
(D) 他們鼓勵琉璃藝術家去嘗試複製周代的作品。 
中譯本文最適合的標題是什麼? 
解析(A)中國的玻璃藝術品 
(B) 複雜精細的琉璃藝術 
(C) 琉璃工房的歷史 
(D) 當代的玻璃鑄造技術 
閱讀測驗試題 05 
基礎養成篇 精選閲讀測験 
We have often heard a famous quote from the English poet of the early 20th century, Rudyard Kipling: "East is East and West is West, and never the twain shall meet.” Linguistically speaking and interestingly enough, though, this is not true regarding the English language's absorption of world cultures into its vocabulary mostly due to the British colonization from the 16th century to the early 20th on a global scale. Take Chinese for example, there are many phrases of Chinese origin that have become day-to-day expressions in English. 
Thanks to your knowledge of English, you already know Chinese! Have you ever eaten tofu or used ketchup as a seasoning? When you do grocery shopping, have you put bok choy in your cart? And what about dim sum, wonton, chop suey and kung pao chicken on Chinese restaurant menus? When it comes to interior design, a balance of feng shui and yin and yang often comes to a designer's mind. Also, many westerners now play mahjong for entertainment. 
More often than not, instead of saying, "it has been a while since I saw you last," people now would probably say, "long time no see." One thing to note is that, as you must have noticed from the examples given above: some Chinese phrases entered English from Cantonese, such as bok choy and dim sum whereas many others are from Mandarin, for example, tofu and feng shui. 
In conclusion, the earth is round and the east and west is only comparative and relational. It all depends on where you stand, where you have come from and where you are going in today's global context. 
299 
300 
1. What is the passage mainly about? 
(A) Many Mandarin and Cantonese phrases have entered 
English. 
(B) East is East and West is West, and never the twain shall 
meet. 
(C) Bok choy, wanton and dim sum are originally Cantonese 
phrases. 
(D) Tofu, feng shui and yin and yang are originally from 
Mandarin. 
2. What is the main idea of the second paragraph? 
(A) Tofu is from Mandarin and ketchup is from Cantonese. (B) There are many phrases of Chinese origin in English. (C) Feng shui has become popular among interior designers. (D) There are many phrases of English origin in Chinese. 
3. Which of the following can be INFERRED? 
(A) Mahjong is now the most popular entertainment in the west. (B) The idea of feng shui is now observed everywhere in the 
world. 
(C) Dim sum has now become the most popular Chinese food. (D) "People mountain people sea" is probably of Chinese origin. 
4. Which of the following best replaces "twain" in the first paragraph? 
(A) other 
(C) couple 
(B) two (D) double 
5. Which does "its" mean in the first paragraph? 
(A) language 
(C) English 
(B) absorption 
(D) culture 
基礎養成篇 精選閱讀測驗 
中譯 
我們常常聽到來自二十世紀初期的英國詩人魯德亞德·吉卜 林的一句名言:「東方是東方,西方是西方,雙方永遠不會交 會。」然而,從語言的角度來看而且有趣的是,這句話並非事實, 因為英文吸收了世界各地的文化並納入其字彙當中,其主因為 十六世紀到二十世紀初期英國在全球的殖民統治。以中文為例, 有許多源自中文的片語如今已成為英文中的日常表達方式。 
多虧有了英文的常識,你已經認識了中文!你有沒有吃過豆 腐,或是使用過番茄醬來當調味料呢?當你採買雜貨,是否曾把 小白菜放進你的推車裡呢?還有中國餐館菜單上的廣式點心、餛 飩、炒雜碎以及宮保雞丁呢?說到室內設計,設計師經常會考慮 到風水及陰陽的和諧。此外,現今有許多西方人把打麻將當成一 種娛樂。 
人們現在通常可能會說:「好久不見。」而不說:「上一次 見到你已經有好一陣子了。」有一點要注意的是,從上述提供的 範例當中,你一定已經注意到了:有些進入英文辭彙裡的中文片 語是來自廣東話,例如小白菜和廣式點心,而許多其他的片語則 是來自普通話,例如豆腐和風水。 
總之,地球是圓的,而東西方只是互有比較和關聯。在現今 的全球背景下,一切都是依據你所站的角度、你來自哪裡以及你 將去的地方而定。 
301 
302 
答案&解析 
題號答案 
1. A 
中譯 
解析 
本文的主旨是什麼? 
解析內容 
(A)許多普通話及廣東話的片語已進入英文當中。 (B)東方是東方,西方是西方,雙方永遠不會交會。 (C) 小白菜、餛飩和廣式點心源自於廣東語的片語。 
(D)豆腐、風水及陰陽源自於普通話。 
2. B 
中譯 
本文第二段的主旨是什麼? 
解析 
3. D 
(A)豆腐來自普通話,而番茄醬來自廣東話。 (B)英文中有許多片語源自於中文。 
(C) 風水在室內設計師之間很受歡迎。 
(D) 中文裡有許多片語源自於英文。 
中譯 我們可以推論出下列哪一項敘述? 
解析(A)麻將是現今西方最受歡迎的娛樂活動。 
(B) 風水的概念如今在世界各地都受到關注。 
(C)廣式點心現今已成了最受歡迎的中國菜。 
(D)「人山人海」一詞可能是源自於中文。 
4. B 
【中譯 下列何者最適合代替本文第一段中的 twain ? 
解析(A)其他的(B)二(C)夫妻 (D)加倍的 
5. C 
中譯本文第一段中的 its 是什麼意思? 
解析(A)語言 (B)吸收(C)英文 (D)文化