閱讀測驗試題05 
基礎養成篇 精選閲讀測験 
Widow Sheila Young wasn't enthusiastic about the idea of online dating. But she took the courage and met a man who changed her life. 
Sheila, 73, had lost her husband to bowel cancer 18 months earlier. After more than 40 years of marriage, she missed the companionship, conversation and comfort of having someone to share her life. 
"A niece had tried online dating," says Sheila. "It didn't work for her, but one evening I had a couple of glasses of red wine and thought, 'go for it girl.' I didn't tell anyone in case it didn't work out. I said in my profile simply, 'I want someone to make me laugh again." 
Over a period of three weeks, her inbox was filled with inappropriate messages. Sheila despaired. Then she found Roy Millard, 75. Or rather, he found her. Roy, whose wife Jenny died of ovarian cancer seven years ago, signed up to the dating site without telling a soul. 
Like Sheila, Roy was looking for a companion, someone to giggle with, to laugh at his jokes. Living 32 miles apart, yet they were perfect 
for each other. 
When Sheila's photograph popped up, he stopped short. He was 
smitten. 
Luckily, Sheila liked the look of him too. "It was his eyes, I think," she says. "Such a twinkle in them.” 
After three weeks of messaging and talking on the phone, the pair arranged to meet halfway at a garden centre in October 2012. When Sheila pulled in, Roy was already waiting by his car. "We were both nervous," admits Sheila. "But once we sat down for a coffee, it just felt natural." Roy adds: "Neither of us wanted the date to end, so we drove to a pub for lunch.” 
303 
304 
Soon they met each other's families who got on well right away. They both have lots of great friends and family, and now they are combined. With visits from friends and family and eating out regularly, the couple are rarely at home. 
"I can't believe that my life has changed so much," she says. "When I think of people in my situation being lonely, I feel so lucky." 
Roy adds, "We plucked up the courage to do something, and it worked out. Look at the life we have now." 
1. How did Sheila and Roy meet? 
(A) At a church service 
(B) Through a friend 
(C) Via an online dating service 
(D) By joining the same singing contest 
2. What did they both look for in a companion? 
(A) Knowledge 
(C) Security 
(B) Laughter 
(D) Wealth 
3. What did Sheila and Roy have when they went out the first 
time? 
(A) Afternoon tea 
(C) Coffee and lunch 
(B) Brunch 
(D) Tea and dinner 
4. Which of the following statements is NOT true? 
(A) Sheila and Roy had good first impression of each other. 
(B) Their former spouses died of cancer. 
(C) Their children persuaded them to meet each other. (D) They joined the service without telling anyone. 
5. To Sheila and Roy, what did it take to be happy again? 
(A) Courage (C) Money 
(B) Time 
(D) Prayer 
基礎養成篇 精選閱讀測驗 
中譯 
寡婦希拉·楊原本對於網路交友並不熱衷。但她鼓起勇氣嘗 試後遇見了一個改變她一生的男人。 
七十三歲的希拉,在十八個月前失去了因腸癌而過世的丈 夫。他們結婚四十多年,她很想念他的陪伴、對話及有人分享生 活的安慰。 
希拉說:「我的姪女曾試過網路交友,但沒有效果。有一晚, 我喝了幾杯紅酒後想:『去試試吧。』我沒有告訴任何人,以免 到時候以失敗收場。我的自我介紹很簡單:我想要有人讓我再次 
展開笑顏。 J 
過了三個星期,她的收件匣裡滿滿的都是不適合對象的訊 息。希拉感到很絕望。後來她發現了七十五歲的羅伊·米勒。或 者該說是羅伊發現了希拉。羅伊的妻子珍妮七年前因卵巢癌去 世,而他沒有告訴任何人就在交友網站上註冊。 
就像希拉一樣,羅伊也在尋找伴侶,一個可以一起傻笑,以 及聽他的笑話而大笑的人。雖然兩人相隔三十二英里遠,但他們 可說是天作之合。 
希拉的照片跳出來的時候,他停頓了一下,感到神魂顛倒。 
很幸運地,希拉也喜歡羅伊的長相。她說:「我想應該是他 的眼睛,裡面像是有星星在閃耀。 
J 
經過三個星期的傳訊和電話聊天,他們在2012年十月安排 在兩地中間的花園中心見面。希拉到達的時候,羅伊已經在他的 車子旁邊等了。希拉承認:「我們都很緊張。」羅伊補充說:「但 一坐下來喝咖啡後,一切感覺起來都很自然。我們都不希望這次 約會結束,所以我們開車到一家酒館吃午餐。 
很快地他們見過了彼此的家人,而大家也都立刻相處得很 好。他們都有許多很棒的朋友和家人,而他們現在成了一對。由 於親友經常拜訪和固定在外用餐,這對夫妻很少在家。 
305 
306 
她說:「我無法相信我的人生會有這麼大的轉變。當我想到 
和我有相同遭遇的人正感到寂寞,我就覺得自己很幸運。」 
羅伊補充說:「我們都鼓起了勇氣去做點什麼,結果成功了。 看看我們現在擁有的生活吧。 
┘ 
答案&解析 
題號 答案 
解析內容 
1. C 
中譯 希拉和羅伊是如何相遇的? 解析(A)上教會的時候 
(B)透過朋友介紹 
(C) 藉由網路交友服務 
(D)參加同一場歌唱比賽 
2. B 
中譯 他們兩人都在伴侶身上尋找什麼? 
解析(A)知識 (B)笑聲 (C) 安全 (D)財富 
3. C 【中譯】希拉和羅伊第一次出去時去吃了什麼? 
解析(A)下午茶(B)早午餐 (C)咖啡和午餐(D)茶和晚餐 
4. 
C 
中譯 下列哪一項敘述是錯誤的? 
5. A 
解析(A)希拉和羅伊對彼此的第一印象都很好。 
(B) 他們之前的配偶都因為癌症而過世。 
(C)他們的孩子說服他們見面。 
(D) 他們註冊網路交友服務並沒有告訴任何人。 
中譯 對希拉和羅伊而言,需要什麼才能再次快樂起來? 解析(A)勇氣(B)時間 (C)金錢(D)祈禱 
閱讀測驗試題 
基礎養成篇 精選閲讀測験 
For decades inflation was the bogeyman in rich countries. But 
now some economists reckon that deflation, or falling prices, may be 
a more serious threat—in America and Europe as well as Japan. That would be decidedly awkward, given the surge in borrowing by firms and households in recent years. Particularly worrying is the rise in borrowing by American households to finance purchases of houses, cars or luxury goods. Deflation would swell the real burden of these debts, forcing consumers to cut their spending. 
Deflation is not necessarily bad. If falling prices are caused by faster productivity growth, as happened in the late 19th century, then it can go hand in hand with robust growth. On the other hand, if deflation reflects a slump in demand and excess capacity, it can be dangerous, as it was in the 1930s, triggering a downward spiral of demand and prices. 
Today, both the good and bad sorts of deflation are at work. Some prices are falling because of productivity gains, thanks to information technology. But the weakness of profits suggests that most deflation is now bad, not good. Deflation is particularly harmful when an economy is awash with debt. Total private-sector debt is now much higher than when deflation was last experienced in the 1930s. Falling prices not only increase the real burden of debt, they also make it impossible for a central bank to deliver negative real interest rates, because nominal rates cannot go below zero. If deflation causes real debts to swell, debtors may have to cut spending and sell assets to meet their payments. This can unleash a vicious spiral of falling incomes, asset prices and rising real debt. Irving Fisher, an American economist, described this process 
in a famous article in 1993 entitled “The Debt-Deflation Theory of Great Depressions". He described how attempts by individuals to reduce their 
307 
debt burden by cutting costs could paradoxically cause their debt burden 
to swell. Unable to increase prices to boost profits, firms have to cut 
costs, either by reducing labour costs and hence household income or by buying less from other firms. This is sensible for an individual firm, but it reduces demand in the economy, thwarting the desired improvement 
in profit, leading to another round of cuts and putting further downward pressure on prices. 
1. The word "bogeyman" is used to express that inflation was 
(A) frightening 
(C) not a problem 
(B) well studied 
(D) surprising 
308 
2. The primary purpose of this passage is to 
(A) inform what happens when price level rises 
(B) inform how dangerous it could be when price level goes down (C) compares between inflation and deflation 
(D) argue for a strong deflation 
3. Under what situation would deflation not be a threat to the society? 
(A) When product availability exceeds people's demands 
(B) When firms are borrowing money from the banks for business (C) When people are borrowing to purchase houses 
(D) When it is caused by faster productivity growth 
4. According to the passage, what does downward spiral of demand. 
and prices refer to? 
(A) the prices go up but the demand goes down 
(B) the prices go up but the demand goes up 
(C) the prices go down but the demand goes down (D) the prices go down and the demand goes up 
5. Which of the following is NOT true of deflation? 
(A) Deflation could be both good and bad. 
(B) Deflation could cause real debts to swell. 
(C) The surge in borrowing by firms and households causes deflation. (D) Both the good and bad sorts of deflation can be seen today. 
基礎養成篇 精選閱讀測驗 
中譯 
過去幾十年來,通貨膨脹在富有的國家是很可怕的一件事。 然而時至今日,經濟學家認為通貨緊縮或是價格下跌在美國、歐 洲和日本可能是更嚴重的威脅。考量到近年來興起的公司和家庭 的借款潮,通貨緊縮確實是很棘手的問題。特別需要擔心的就是 越來越多美國家庭借錢來購買房子、車子以及奢侈品。通貨緊縮 會增加這些債務真正的負擔,迫使消費者必須減少花費。 
通貨緊縮並不一定是不好的。如果價格下跌是由於生產力成 長較為快速所導致,就像十九世紀末期一樣,那麼它就可能伴隨 著經濟的成長茁壯。而另一方面來說,如果通貨緊縮反映了需求 下降和生產過剩,那麼情況可能就很危險,就像1930年代一樣, 引發了需求和價格的劇烈下跌。 
時至今日,通貨緊縮的好處和壞處都同時出現了。由於資訊 科技的緣故,有些產品的價格下跌是因為產能的提升。然而,薄 弱的利潤顯示目前大多數的通貨緊縮是弊多於利。當某個經濟體 內部債務充斥時,通貨緊縮的害處會特別明顯。現今私人部門的 總債務比起上次在1930年代經歷通貨緊縮時要高得多。價格下 跌不僅增加了債務的實際負擔,同時也讓中央銀行無法宣佈實際 利率為負,因為名義利率不能低於零。如果通貨緊縮導致實際債 務增加,那麼債務人可能就必須減少花費並變賣資產來清償債 務。這可能會開啟一個收入和資產價格下跌,而實際債務卻增加 的惡性循環。美國一位經濟學家爾文·費雪在 1993 年一篇名為 「大蕭條的債務緊縮理論」的文章中描述了這個過程。他描述人 們企圖藉由減少花費來減輕債務壓力,結果卻可能反而導致債務 壓力增加。公司沒辦法提高價格來增加利潤,於是只得減少成 本,不論是降低人力成本而造成家庭收入減少,亦或是減少向其 他公司購買產品的數量。這對個別公司是很合理的,但會降低整 個經濟體的需求量,阻礙了利潤的增加,也導致了另一波的減少 成本潮,而進一步增加了價格劇烈下跌所帶來的壓力。 
309 
310 
答案&解析 
題號答案 
解析內容 
1. A 
中譯 
bogeyman 這個字是用來表示通貨膨脹是 
解析(A)可怕的 
(B)充份研究的 
(C)不成問題 
(D)令人驚訝的 
2. 
B 
中譯本文主要的目的在於 
解析 
3. D 
4. C 
5. C 
(A)告知價格上升時會發生什麼事 (B)告知價格下跌時會有多麼危險 (C) 比較通貨膨脹和通貨緊縮 (D) 爭論嚴重的通貨緊縮 
中譯 在什麼情形之下通貨緊縮不會對社會造成威脅? 
(A)當生產能力超過人們的需求的時候 (B)當公司向銀行借錢做生意的時候 
解析 
(C) 當人們借錢來買房子的時候 
(D) 當通貨緊縮是由於生產力成長較快所導致的時候 
中譯根據本文,需求和價格的劇烈下跌指的是什麼? 解析 (A)價格上升但需求下降 
(B)價格上升但需求也上升 
(C)價格下降但需求也下降 
(D) 價格下降而需求上升 
中譯 下列哪一項關於通貨緊縮的敘述不正確? 解析(A)通貨緊縮可能有好有壞。 
(B)通貨緊縮可能會造成實際債務的增加。 
(C)公司和家庭的借款風潮導致了通貨緊縮。 
(D)通貨緊縮的好處和壞處在今日都看得到。 
閱讀測驗試題3 
基礎養成篇 精選閲讀測験 
There is a museum for everything these days. A museum may turn you off your dinner. It is the Disgusting Food Museum, which opened at the end of 2018 in Malmo, Sweden. Food is so much more than 
sustenance. Curious foods from exotic cultures have always fascinated people. Unfamiliar foods can be delicious, or they can be more of an acquired taste. The new exhibition allows people to analyze why they love and hate certain foods. It might also lead them to consider 
alternative food sources. The museum's founder, Dr. Samuel West, a 
psychologist by day and a museum curator by night, explained why he created the project. He said he was researching the effect of meat consumption and its effect on the environment. This made him think 
about alternative sources of protein, like insects. Although most people would think eating bugs is gross, Dr. West wanted to make them 
reconsider the idea. The exhibition invites visitors to explore the world of 
food and challenge their notions of what is and what is not edible. While 
many food-related museums of late have mostly just been opportunities for novel selfies, West is adamant that the Disgusting Food Museum is 
there to help people learn and think critically, not just to pose for photos. 
The museum is a 400-square-meter space that will challenge four of our five senses-smell, touch, sight and taste. The displays include food from around the world that some people might think is disgusting. However, people in other parts of the world think this food is totally normal and is a regular part of their diet. The food exhibits include 
American favorites such as Jell-O salad and world food like fried 
tarantula, fermented shark, roasted guinea pigs and sheep eyeball juice. Dr. West said that we could all eat any food, but our culture tells us what 
is tasty and what is not. According to him, what we find disgusting has to 
be learned—it's purely cultural. 
311 
312 
1. What is the reading mainly about? 
(A) New findings on alternative foods (B) Opening of a food museum 
(C) Dr. West's healthy eating advice 
(D) The American food exhibition 
2. What does the word "adamant" in the first paragraph mean? 
(A) Determined 
(C) Innovative 
(B) Curious 
(D) Unsatisfied 
3. According to the passage, which of the following statements is 
true about Dr. West? 
(A) He studied the impact of insects on the environment. 
(B) He is a biologist and works in a museum. 
(C) He encouraged museum visitors to take selfies and pose photos. (D) He established the Disgusting Food Museum. 
4. According to the passage, which of the following is NOT TRUE 
about the food exhibition? 
(A) Visitors can smell, touch, and taste different disgusting foods. (B) A variety of world food such as fermented shark was on 
display. 
(C) It was held in a 400-square-meter museum in Sweden. 
(D) The displays only include food that is not a regular part of 
everyone's diet. 
5. Which is the best paraphrase of the last sentence in the second paragraph? "What we find disgusting has to be learned-it's purely cultural." 
(A) People need to appreciate every food culture even it is 
disgusting. 
(B) People learn what food to be disgusted through their own 
culture. 
(C) People tend to be disgusted about different cultural practices. (D) People learn to change their disgust about food in a new 
culture. 
基礎養成篇 精選閱讀測驗 
中譯 
現今每樣東西都能有相關的博物館。有座博物館可能會讓你 把晚餐都吐出來。那就是噁心食物博物館,於2018年底於瑞典 馬爾摩開幕。那裡的食物並不僅僅是食物。來自異國文化的奇怪 食物總是令人們著迷。不熟悉的食物可能會很美味,或者可能是 比較需要習慣的味道。這場新的展覽讓人們可以分析自己喜歡或 討厭某些食物的理由。它也可能會讓人們開始思考替代性的食 物來源。這座博物館的創辦人山繆·韋斯特博士——他白天是心 理學家,晚上則是博物館的館長——解釋了他創立這項計劃的原 因。他表示,他在研究食用肉類的作用,以及其對環境所造成的 影響。這讓他去思考其他替代性的蛋白質來源,像是昆蟲。雖然 大多數人會覺得吃蟲子很噁心,但韋斯特博士想要讓人們重新思 考這個點子。這場展覽邀請遊客們去探索食物的世界,同時也挑 戰他們對於什麼可以吃,什麼不能吃的想法。雖然最近許多和食 物有關的博物館大多只是成了人們拍一些新奇自拍照的機會,但 韋斯特很堅持噁心食物博物館是要幫助人們學習以及批判性思 考,而不只是讓人們擺姿勢拍照。 
這座博物館的空間有四百平方公尺,在此可以挑戰我們五種 感官中的其中四種——嗅覺、觸覺、視覺和味覺。這場展覽包含 了來自世界各地,而有些人可能會認為很噁心的食物。然而,世 界其他地方的人們會覺得這些食物十分正常,而且是他們飲食中 很常見的一部份。這些展出的食物包括了像果凍沙拉這種美國人 的最愛,以及像是油炸狼蛛、發酵鯊魚肉、烤天竺鼠和羊眼球汁 等世界各地的食物。韋斯特博士表示,我們可以吃任何食物,但 我們的文化卻告訴我們什麼好吃,什麼不好吃。根據他的說法, 我們覺得很噁心的事物都是學習而來的——那都是文化造成的。 
313 
314 
答案&解析 
題號 答案 
解析內容 
1. B 
中譯 
本文的主旨是什麼? 
解析 
(A)替代性食物的新發現 
(B)一座食物博物館的開幕 
(C)韋斯特博士對健康飲食的建議 
2. 
A 
(D) 美國食物展覽 
中譯本文第一段中的 adamant 是什麼意思? 
解析(A)堅定的(B)好奇的 (C)創新的(D)不滿意的 
3. D 
中 
解析 
4. D 
中 
解析 
5. B 
根據本文,下列哪一項關於韋斯特博士的叙述是正確的? 
(A)他研究昆蟲對環境造成的衝擊。 
(B) 他是一位在博物館工作的生物學家。 
(C)他鼓勵來博物館的遊客自拍和拍照。 
(D) 他建立了噁心食物博物館。 
根據本文,下列哪一項關於這場食物展覽的敘述是不正確的? (A)遊客可以聞、摸和品嚐各種噁心食物。 
(B)各式各樣像是發酵鯊魚肉等的世界各地食物都有展出。 
(C)展覽是在位於瑞典的一座面積四百平方公尺的博物館舉 
行的。 
(D)這些展示僅包括那些不屬於每個人日常飲食的食物。 
中譯下列何者是本文第二段最後一句:「我們覺得很噁心的事物 
都是學習而來的——那都是文化造成的」最貼切的改寫? 
解析(A)人們必須欣賞每一種食物的文化,即使它很噁心。 
(B)人們是透過自己的文化才知道什麼食物很噁心。 
(C) 人們往往會對不同文化的做法感到噁心。 
(D)人們會在新文化中學著去改變自己對食物的噁心感。