第二 
部 
分 
模擬試題 
模擬試題 
RE 
第 
1 
國文與英文 
回 
得分 
壹、國文 
作文題目:我對提升國營事業競爭力的看法 
貳、英文:單選題40題,每題1.25分,共50分 
、字彙 
1. Conditions were harsh, but we 
(A) made the best of it 
(C) got the hang of it 
2. Animals in the zoo have lost the 
(A) menu 
(B) means 
(B) gained some weight 
(D) have the green light 
of catching food for themselves. 
(D) capability 
3. Snow forced many drivers to 
(A) vacate 
(B) evacuate 
(C) appetite 
their vehicles. 
(C) abandon 
4. After graduating from business school, Jeffrey 
(D) explode 
his academic success 
to his grandfather. 
(A) blamed 
(B) disparate 
5. Electronic commerce is a new model of 
(A) product 
(C) conducting 
6. This type of saturated fat can 
bad cholesterol in the blood. 
(C) forgave 
(D) imputed 
commercial activities. 
(B) abducting 
(D) reducing 
to heart disease by increasing levels of 
(A) attribute 
(B) contribute 
(C) distribute (D) ascribe 
1- 
1 
國文與英文 
KAR 
HIERS 
1 
7. Two people died and 21 were injured after Taiwan was hit by a(n) 
6.3 earthquake yesterday afternoon. 
(A) altitude 
(B) multitude 
(C) magnitude 
(D) outburst 
8. The ban will remain effective until it is proved that no traces of the 
materials are present in the foods. 
(A) nutritional (B) toxic 
(C) restrained 
(D) exempt 
9. Jane's long years of editing experience made her 
job of a publisher. 
(A) inevitably 
10. It is an 
(B) supposedly (C) extremely 
qualified for the 
(D) temporarily 
journey for him to go back to his hometown in a remote 
village in the countryside. 
(A) arduous 
(B) intelligible 
(C) outrageous 
(D) eventual 
二、文法與慣用語 
11. The company 
is in China. 
(A) is used to selling 
(C) was used to sell 
their products to Europe, but now their core business 
12. The manager offered a great reward to 
challenging task. 
(A) who 
(B) which 
13. 
(B) used to sell 
(D) used to selling 
could first complete the 
(C) whoever 
(D) whatever 
by the unknown stranger in the room, the girl screamed as loudly as 
she could. 
(B) Stunning 
(D) To be stunned 
video games for eight hours by the time his father comes 
(A) Stunned 
(C) To stun 
14. Charlie 
home at midnight tonight. 
(A) have played 
(C) had been playing 
1- 
2 
(B) was playing 
(D) will have been playing 
15. Not until I arrived at school 
door of my house. 
(A) I recalled 
(C) I did recall 
16. John won't accept the job offer, 
(A) will John 
(C) would John 
17. I want to learn how to eat 
(A) above 
(B) by 
that I had forgotten to lock the front 
(B) did I recall 
(D) recalled by me 
? 
(B) will he 
(D) would he 
chopsticks. 
(C) in 
(D) with 
18. He 
19. 
friends. 
Since then, we've become not only neighbors but also good 
(A) had moved to Taipei for one year s (B) has moved to Taipei one year ago (C) moved to Taipei one year ago 
(D) was moving to Taipei for one year 
is a serious problem in Taiwan. 
(A) Drinking-driving Hor 
(C) Drunk-driving 
(B) Drinking-driven 
(D) Drunk-driven 
you the truth. But I was scared at that time. 
20. I know I 
(A) had told 
(C) must have told 
(B) have told 
(D) should have told 
國文與英文 
三、克漏字 
According to a 2011 survey by the American Pet Products Association (APPA), sixty-two percent of U.S. families have pets. Life is good and joyful to _(21)_ furry friends! As Cesar Millan, the "Dog Whisperer", _(22)_ to say, 
pets in the United States have the chance to see Santa, dermatologists, physical therapists and even pet sitters. __(23)_ those furry friends also will get a little something extra under the tree this Christmas, bolstering an estimated $50 billion pet industry. That means pet store buyers across the country are hard at work stocking their shelves _(24)_ gear, treats and toys that will stand out from the crowd. "With more people owning pets- and pets living longer- it is kind of unavoidable that there will be more money __(25)__ in the pet category,” says Janene Zakrajsek, owner of Pussy and Pooch pet stores in California. 
1- 
3 
21. (A) this 
(B) these 
(C) any 
(D) another 
22. (A) is like 
(B) like 
(C) likes 
(D) likely 
23. (A) Some of 
(B) Many 
(C) Much 
(D) Pairs of 
24. (A) on 
(B) in 
(C) of 
(D) with 
25. (A) spend 
(B) be spending (C) spent 
(D) be spent 
第 
1 
Many people recognize basketball as their favorite sport, but few know of 
its origin. _(26)__, the game's popularity is more than 100 years old. Its history _(27)_ back to the 1890s, when a young YMCA teacher in Springfield, 
Massachusetts, wanted to work out a game for his bored students to play indoors in freezing cold weather. For the first game, he _(28)_ the idea of hanging a peach basket to the wall of the gymnasium. The ball _(29)_ was a soccer ball. With the boys divided into two teams, they made up a game _(30)__ which each team tried to toss the ball into the basket. That is how the precursor to the modern basketball was formed. 
26. (A) In fact 
(C) For example 
27. (A) retreats 
(B) After all 
(D) To tell the truth. 
(B) dates 
(C) is set 
28. (A) coped with 
(C) came up with 
29. (A) using 
30. (A) at 
(D) is gone 
(B) dealt with 
(D) shuffled with 
(B) used 
(C) to use 
(D) to using 
(B) to 
(C) on 
(D) in 
四、閱讀測驗 
Canning is a method of preserving food over extended periods of time. The process involves sealing food in containers and heating it in order to kill bacteria 
that could eventually cause spoilage. While most canned food is produced by 
commercial companies, some is done at home. 
Homegrown fruits and vegetables such as apples and tomatoes are the most popular foods to can. Even certain kinds of meats are suitable for canning. 
1- 4 
However, it is not advisable to heat produce such as avocados because of the changes in taste and texture that occur. Other foods, including cucumbers and peppers, can be canned only if they are first pickled and then cooked at very low 
temperatures. 
Properly canned food can be saved for as long as three years. If not properly sealed, the food can be spoiled by the growth of organisms. In several cases, 
bacteria can cause a fatal form of poisoning called "botulism." For this reason, it is very important to check the seal of the jar or bottle regularly to make sure it has remained undisturbed. 
31. What is the best title for this passage? 
(A) Several Techniques for Canning 
(B) The Use of Sealed Containers 
(C) Detecting Harmful Organism 
(D) The Nature of the Canning Method 
32. According to the passage, what is needed to kill bacteria that spoil food? 
(A) An airtight seal 
(C) A commercial company 
(B) Heat 
(D) Homegrown produce 
33. According to the passage, which of the following is NOT suitable for 
canning? 
(A) Apples 
(C) Cucumbers 
(B) Tomatoes 
(D) Avocados 
(B) develops very slowly 
(D) is a result of canning foods 
34. It can be inferred from the passage that bacteria 
(A) is rarely harmful 
(C) is one type of organism 
35. According to the passage, botulism can be avoided by 
(A) disturbing the container from time to time 
(B) properly sealing a jar or bottle 
(C) reheating the canned food 
(D) promoting the growth of beneficial organisms 
1- 5 
國文與英文 
第 
AR 
1 
According to the US Department of Energy, the United States uses nearly 25 percent of the world's fossil fuels, but contributes only 3 percent of total fossil fuel production. Nearly 60 percent of United States' oil supply comes from regions that suffer from political instability. The United States maintains a military presence at oil fields and production sites around the world, and it 
actively protects oil pipelines in the Middle East and Central America. US forces 
took control of oil production facilities during the 2003 invasion of Iraq; critics 
charged that this was the main objective of the invasion and occupation. 
Fossil fuel energy is relatively cheap to produce and most of the world's technology is geared toward the use of fossil fuels. However, fossil fuels are a non-renewable energy source, as their production requires millions of years. Alternatives such as wind power and hydropower are renewable and produce little pollution, but environmentalists sometimes object to these as they can contribute to habitat destruction. 
Solar and hydrogen power are pollution-free and do not require extensive intrusion 
upon natural habitats. Problems with solar energy include the currently high cost of manufacturing and distribution. Hydrogen fuel is expensive to manufacture, handle, and distribute, and it requires the greatest initial investment of any alternative energy program. The US automobile and energy industries have made significant investments in ethanol-powered and hybrid electric vehicles. An increasing number of government mandates have urged the development of alternative energy. 
In 2006, British Petroleum Company released research indicating that there are an estimated 1,200 billion barrels of oil left in the world's reserves. According to proponents of alternative energy exploration, these numbers mean that at the very least, governments should adopt programs aimed at increasing efficiency of fuel usage, if not promoting immediate and drastic reductions in fossil fuel consumption. 
Some activists believe that global governments are actively discouraging research into alternative energy in support of the multi-billion dollar fossil fuel industry. More moderate critics argue that governments are simply not investing enough energy or resources into research and development. Opponents of alternative energy development argue that governments are awaiting a viable alternative to current fuel sources while attempting to protect and enhance current supplies. 
1- 
6 
國文與英文 
36. In what style is the passage mainly written? orgienky saltan puak 
(A) Argumentative. 
(C) Expository. 
(B) Comparative. 
(D) Procedural. 
37. What is the main purpose of the passage ? 
(A) To inform readers of the current use and research on alternative and 
renewable energy. 
(B) To contend that the US wastes too much energy while contributes 
little to energy production. 
(C) To introduce how fossil fuels and other alternative and renewable 
energy are developed step by step. 
(D) To make a thorough contrast between the advantages of fossil fuels 
and those of alternative and renewable energy. 
38. Why is the invasion of Iraq mentioned in the passage ? 
(A) Because the author would like to demonstrate the process of building 
oil pipelines in Iraq. 
(B) Because the author would like to argue that the US has offered great 
help to Iraq by providing oil supplies. 
(C) Because the author would like to convince readers to believe in the 
United States' power on economically unstable countries. 
(D) Because the author would like to illustrate the point that the invasion 
was out of not only political reasons but also economic reasons. 
39. According to the passage, what is the problem of hydropower ? 
(A) It would destroy human dwellings. 
(B) It would damage the natural environment. 
(C) It would consume many natural resources. 
(D) It would contaminate the source of drinking water. 
1 
7 
第 
AR 
40. According to the passage, which of the following statements is true? 
(A) Viable alternatives to fossil fuels have already been discovered. 
(B) There are more and more countries advocating for alternative energy. (C) There were 1,200 billion barrels of oil found in the sea around the UK. 
(D) The investment of solar energy costs more than that of any other 
energy. 
1- 
8